#summary Basic informations
#labels Phase-Requirements,Phase-Design,Featured
= Introduction =

_Crypt Manager_ is the Google Summer of Code project of *Kévin Dunglas* [1] for *Ubuntu* [2] mentore by *Jani Monoses* [3].
The goal of this project is to *increase security of sensitives data* especially on computers which can be thieved (like laptops).  
_Crypt manager_ is a compilation of tools which allow to *easily encrypt, open, close and uncrypt folders* in a Desktop environment.
It is wrote in Python [4], it EncFS [5] as backend.
_Gcrypt Manager_, the graphical interface for _Crypt Manager_ also use Pygtk [6] and Glade [7].

_Note: Crypt Manager was using use cryptsetup [8] and LUKS [9] as backend at developpement start. See deprecated downloads._

  * [1] http://placelibre.ath.cx/keyes/
  * [2] http://www.ubuntu.com/
  * [3] http://janimo.blogspot.com/
  * [4] http://www.python.org/
  * [5] http://arg0.net/wiki/encfs
  * [6] http://www.pygtk.org/
  * [7] http://glade.gnome.org/
  * [8] http://www.saout.de/misc/dm-crypt/
  * [9] http://luks.endorphin.org/

= Details =

The Crypt Manager project is composed of three parts:
  * A Python module called _cryptsetup.py_ which perform basics crypt, uncrypt, open and close operations on crypted folders. See CryptManagerModule
  * A command line tool using the module called _crypt-manager_. See CommandLineTool
  * A GTK interface using the module called _gcrypt-manager_. See GcryptManager
  * A Nautilus extension. See GnomeIntegration